MATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
SYLLABUS
COURSE INFORMATION
Course Number: MATH 151
Course Title: Engineering Mathematics I
Lecture: 151: 540 – 548 MWF 8:00 – 8:50 PM In ILCB 111
Lab/Recitation (540) TR 8:25 AM – 9:15 AM T: Lab in BLOC 124 R: Recitation in HEB 222
Lab/Recitation (541) TR 9:35 AM – 10:25 AM T: Lab in BLOC 126 R: Recitation in HEB 223
Lab/Recitation (542) TR 11:10 AM – Noon T: Lab in BLOC 123 R: Recitation in HEB 137
Lab/Recitation (543) TR 12:45 PM – 1:35 PM T: Lab in BLOC 126 R: Recitation in HEB 223
Lab/Recitation (544) TR 2:20 PM – 3:10 PM T: Lab in BLOC 126 R: Recitation in HEB 223
Lab/Recitation (545) TR 3:55 PM – 4:45 PM T: Lab in BLOC 133 R: Recitation in BLOC 133
Lab/Recitation (546) TR 11:10 AM – Noon T: Lab in BLOC 129 R: Recitation in BLOC 129
Lab/Recitation (547) TR 9:35 AM – 10:25 AM T: Lab in BLOC 123 R: Recitation in HEB 137
Lab/Recitation (548) TR 5:30 PM – 6:20 PM T: Lab in HEB 203 R: Recitation in HEB 203
Room locations may change. See Howdy for the official schedule.
Lecture: 151: 549 – 557 MWF 9:10 – 10:00 AM in ILCB 111
Lab/Recitation (549) TR 8:25 AM – 9:15 AM T: Lab in BLOC 126 R: Recitation in HEB 223
Lab/Recitation (550) TR 5:30 PM – 6:20 PM T: Lab in BLOC 120 R: Recitation in BLOC 120
Lab/Recitation (551) TR 11:10 AM – Noon T: Lab in BLOC 126 R: Recitation in HEB 223
Lab/Recitation (552) TR 12:45 PM – 1:35 PM T: Lab in BLOC 124 R: Recitation in HEB 222
Lab/Recitation (553) TR 2:20 PM – 3:10 PM T: Lab in BLOC 123 R: Recitation in BLOC 133
Lab/Recitation (554) TR 3:55 PM – 4:45 PM T: Lab in BLOC 126 R: Recitation in HEB 223
T 8:25 AM – 9:15 AM T: Lab in BLOC 122
Lab/Recitation (555)
R 2:20 PM – 3:10 PM R: Recitation in BLOC 133
T 3:55 PM – 4:45 PM T: Lab in BLOC 122
Lab/Recitation (556)
R 2:20 PM – 3:10 PM R: Recitation in BLOC 133
Lab/Recitation (557) TR 5:05 PM – 5:55 PM T: Lab in BLOC 122 R: Recitation in BLOC 122
Room locations may change. See Howdy for the official schedule.
INSTRUCTOR DETAILS
Instructor: Joe Kahlig
Office: Blocker 328D
Phone: Math Department: 979-845-7554 (There is no phone in my office, so email is a better way to reach me.)
E-Mail: kahlig@tamu.edu
Course Webpage: https://people.tamu.edu/~kahlig/
Office Hours: Monday: 1pm-3pm in Blocker 605AX
Wednesday: 1:40-2:50 in Blocker 123
Friday: 1:30pm-3:30pm Blocker 605AX
Other times by appointment.
COURSE DESCRIPTION
MATH 151 Engineering Mathematics I (MATH 2413), Rectangular coordinates, vectors, analytic geometry, functions,
limits, derivatives of functions, applications, integration, computer algebra. MATH 171 designed to be a more demanding
version of this course. Only one of the following will satisfy the requirements for a degree: MATH 131, MATH 142, MATH
147, MATH 151 and MATH 171.
Page 1 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
COURSE PREREQUISITES
MATH 150 or equivalent or acceptable score on TAMU Math Placement Exam.
SPECIAL COURSE DESIGNATION
This is a CORE curriculum course in Mathematics equivalent to MATH 2413. Courses in this category focus on quantitative
literacy in logic, patterns, and relationships. Courses involve the understanding of key mathematical concepts and the
application of appropriate quantitative tools to everyday experiences.
COURSE LEARNING OUTCOMES
This course focuses on quantitative literacy in mathematics along with real world applications to physics, related rate
problems, and optimization. Upon successful completion of this course, students will be able to:
● Understand vectors and vector functions, both graphically and quantitatively, and apply them to real world
situations involving velocity, forces, and work.
● Construct vector and parametric equations of lines and understand vector functions and their relationship to
parametric equations.
● Understand the concept of a limit graphically, numerically, and algebraically, and apply the relationship
between limits, continuity, and differentiability in determining where a function is continuous and/or
differentiable.
● Define the limit definition of the derivative and calculate derivatives using the limit definition, differentiation
formulas, the chain rule, and implicit differentiation, with applications to tangent line and velocity problems.
● Calculate limits and derivatives of vector functions with applications to physics such as computing velocity and
acceleration vectors.
● Identify exponential, logarithmic, and inverse trigonometric functions, and compute limits and derivatives
involving these classes of functions.
● Apply the derivative to mathematically model velocity and acceleration as well as real world related rate
applications, such as calculating the rate at which the distance between two moving objects is changing or the
rate at which the volume of a cone being filled with water is changing.
● Approximate functions and function values using the derivative and the tangent line.
● Identify and understand indeterminate forms and apply the derivative to calculate limits using L'Hôpital's Rule.
● Understand and apply the Intermediate Value Theorem and the Mean Value Theorem and be able to logically
determine when these theorems can be used.
● Use calculus and logic to sketch graphs of functions and analyze their properties, including where a function is
increasing/decreasing and in describing the concavity of the function.
● Determine the maximum/minimum values of functions, including applied optimization problems.
● Compute antiderivatives and understand the concept of integration as it relates to area and Riemann sums.
● Articulate the relationship between derivatives and integrals using the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, and
evaluate definite integrals using the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus.
● Use a Computer Algebra System to solve problems.
CORE OBJECTIVES
CRITICAL THINKING: creative thinking, innovation, inquiry, and analysis, evaluation
and synthesis of information.
The following communication skills will be assessed on quizzes and exams:
● Think critically about limits in determining how the limit conceptually relates to the behavior of the function.
● Think critically about continuity and differentiability to justify whether a function is continuous and or
differentiable at a point.
● Evaluate the proper technique to use when computing limits and derivatives of functions.
Page 2 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
● Synthesize data determined from the first and second derivatives to determine the properties and shape of a
function.
● Use inquiry to determine on what intervals a function is increasing/decreasing and to determine the intervals of
concavity of the function by analyzing the signs of the first and second derivatives.
● Innovatively think about how to solve related rate word problems and optimization problems.
● Analyze functions using continuity and the derivative in determining the maximum and minimum values of the
function, and if they exist.
● Develop a critical understanding of the relationship between the derivative and the integral using the
Fundamental Theorem of Calculus.
COMMUNICATION SKILLS: effective development, interpretation, and expression of ideas
through written, oral and visual communication
The following communication skills will be assessed on quizzes and exams:
● Recognize and construct graphs of basic functions, including polynomials, exponential functions, logarithmic
functions, and trigonometric functions.
● Justify solutions to optimization problems in writing.
● Interpret information from the derivatives of a function in order to develop a visual sketch of the graph of the
function and to communicate in writing the properties of the function.
● Identify points of discontinuity and non-differentiability by examining the graphs of functions.
● Express mathematical concepts, such as the definition of the derivative, both abstractly with equations and in
writing solutions to problems.
● Develop solutions to problems that involve the use of theorems, such as the Squeeze Theorem, the Intermediate
Value Theorem, and the Mean Value Theorem.
● Students will use graphs of functions to determine the value of definite integrals as they relate to area.
● Be required to communicate orally with other group members when working on Computer Algebra System
projects or other group activities.
● Communicate orally in group discussion in the required weekly recitation sessions.
EMPIRICAL AND QUANTITATIVE SKILLS: manipulation and analysis of numerical data or observable facts resulting in
informed conclusions.
The following communication skills will be assessed on quizzes and exams:
● Analyze limits numerically to determine the sign of the infinite limit.
● Analyze numerical data in determining the signs of the first and second derivative in order to make conclusions
on the shape of the graph.
● Compute derivatives and interpret the results as they relate to tangent line, velocity, and other rate of change
problems.
● Numerically approximate the values of a function by using the tangent line approximation.
● Calculate antiderivatives of functions and use initial data to determine any unknown constants.
● Make conclusions involving maximum and minimum values of functions (both local and absolute) based on
information from the derivative.
● Manipulate given information to develop a function to be used in optimization problems and then apply calculus
to find and interpret the optimal solution.
● Approximate the value of a definite integral numerically using Riemann sums.
● Compute definite integrals and interpret the results as they relate to area under a curve.
● Manipulate given information to create a related rate model involving known quantities, and then apply calculus
to solve for an unknown rate of change.
Page 3 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
TEXTBOOK AND/OR RESOURCE MATERIALS
TEXTBOOK: Calculus: Early Transcendentals (9th Edition) by James Stewart; Cengage Learning
Note: You will be required to purchase access to the online homework system, WebAssign, but doing so will automatically
give you access to the eBook version of the text. The textbook is available in different formats, and there are a variety of
purchasing options available (course specific access or Cengage Unlimited). Purchase can be made through the local
bookstores or directly in WebAssign. Starting on the first day of classes, you will be granted access for a trial period while
you determine the appropriate purchasing option for you.
Cengage Unlimited Subscription: Cengage Unlimited subscription gives you access to Cengage’s full
library of online textbooks, study guides, online homework platforms, and an optional print rental, for one
price. You can also purchase access to Cengage Unlimited in the bookstore. For a multi-term course with
a purchase a 1 or 2 term Cengage Unlimited Subscription, you will keep access to those materials for the
duration of the course sequence, even after your Cengage Unlimited subscription ends.
WebAssign Access: WebAssign will be used for homework in this class. A link to the assignments will be available in
Canvas Modules. The first time you access the homework MUST be done through Canvas. Future access may be possible
through your Cengage account. WebAssign has an access fee and you will need to “purchase access online” during the
first two weeks of school. After that, you risk being locked out of the system and missing important assignments.
Gradescope Access: Gradescope is a web-based application that may be used to grade lab assignments, quizzes as well as
the workout portions of the exams. Gradescope may be accessed through Canvas.
Calculator Policy: Calculators are not allowed on Quizzes or Exams but may be needed on homework.
GRADING POLICY
The course grading will be based on the tables below. At the end of the semester, you will receive the grade you earned,
according to the scale given. Due to FERPA privacy issues, I cannot discuss grades over email or phone. If you have
a question about your grade, please schedule a one-on-one meeting with me.
GRADE BREAKDOWN GRADING SCALE
Activity Date Percentage
Homework Weekly 8% Range Grade
Quizzes Weekly 8% 90 ≤ Average ≤ 100 A
Python Lab See Canvas for schedule 2.8% 80 ≤ Average < 90 B
Assignment 67 ≤ Average < 80 C
Python Lab Quiz See Canvas for schedule 1.2% 57 ≤ Average < 67 D
Exam I 9/19/24 20% Average < 57 F
Exam II 10/17/24 20%
Exam III 11/14/24 20%
Final Exam See Below 20%
TOTAL 100%
APPEAL POLICY
Students have one week upon the return of a lab, quiz, or exam to notify their instructor of any inaccuracies in their graded
work. No changes will be made after this one-week period and the grade will stand. Instructions on how to submit a regrade
request in Gradescope can be found in the Class Information in Canvas.
The following are exceptions for the one-week deadline for a grade appeal:
• Points on the assignment were totaled incorrectly or a submission error occurred when the grade was transferred to
Canvas.
Page 4 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
• During the submission of the assignment, the submitter did not tag all members of the group. A list of all group
members who worked on the lab MUST be at the top of the first page of the submitted lab.
• A student had an extended absence during that one week appeal period that impacted the student’s ability to submit
a regrade request.
HOMEWORK
Electronic homework assignments will be completed online in WebAssign. Please note that this homework may NOT be
a comprehensive set of problems in terms of preparing for exams and quizzes. Some additional practice problems can also
be found in the textbook and in WebAssign.
A link to each assignment can be found in a Canvas Module. You must log in to WebAssign through Canvas, the first time
you access the homework. Do not wait until the last minute to complete your online homework as last-minute technical
difficulties will not be an excuse for missing a deadline. Pay close attention to the due dates inside of WebAssign.
• The homework for a section will be due approximately 2 - 3 days after the lecture over that material is completed.
• For every assignment, you may request an extension that will extend the original due date by two days. Any
problem submitted during the extension period will only receive half credit. An extension will not be granted if it
is requested more than two days after the original due date unless there are very special circumstances. Directions
on how to use the WebAssign system can be found on my web page.
• Two homework assignments will be dropped when computing the homework average.
• WebAssign also will contain practice assignments that are NOT for a grade.
• My webpage has a link to suggested homework from the textbook. These suggested problems are not for a grade.
The department has a Student Help Page, at the link given below, that has various information as well as a Student Help
Request Form. This form is for technical issues, not help with solving mathematical problems.
http://www.math.tamu.edu/courses/eHomework
QUIZZES AND LABS
Each section will meet twice weekly for lab and recitation. You will take weekly quizzes for a grade and will work in groups
to complete Python assignments. In at least one of these assignments, you will be expected to explain your reasoning in a
written format. In at least one of these assignments, you will be expected to explain your reasoning in an oral recording.
• Tuesday: Lab meetings.
◦ Lab meetings will be used for working on Python assignments and to take Python quizzes.
◦ The Python Quiz is a three-point quiz that will be taken at the beginning of the lab period on the
day. A laptop will be needed to take this quiz since the quiz be given in Canvas.
◦ A Python quiz will be taken every week when a Python lab assignment is also due.
◦ The Python lab assignments are group assignments.
◦ Group members who do not participate in the lab assignment will not receive any credit for the
assignment.
◦ The lab schedule can be found in the Canvas.
• THURSDAY: RECITATION MEETINGS are question/answer sessions with your Teaching Assistant. A
weekly quiz will also be given on this day. At least one quiz will be dropped when computing the
quiz average.
Page 5 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
EXAMS
There will be three common exams during the semester. These exams are evening exams taken by all Math 151 students
at the same time. Bring your Texas A&M student ID and a pencil/pen to all exams. You will need a scantron for all exams.
The location of the common exams will be determined later. The tentative exam schedule is as follows:
Common Exam I: Thursday, September 19, 7:30 – 9:30 PM
Common Exam II: Thursday, October 17, 7:30 – 9:30 PM
Common Exam III: Thursday, November 14, 7:30 – 9:30 PM
FINAL EXAM
The final exam will be comprehensive and is required for all students. If your final exam grade is higher than your lowest
test grade, the grade on your final will replace that test grade in the final grade calculation. The final exam schedule is as
follows:
Sections Lecture Time Final Exam Date & Time
540 - 548 MWF 8:00 – 8500 AM Thursday, Dec 5, 10:00 AM – Noon in ILCB 111
549 - 557 MWF 9:10 – 10:00 AM Friday, Dec 6, 8:00 AM – 10:00 AM in ILCB 111
(Refer to https://aggie.tamu.edu/registration-and-records/classes/final-examination-schedules for the University final exam schedule.)
LATE WORK POLICY
• Online homework assignments will be accepted late (up to two days from the original due date) for a
penalty for any problems submitted during the extension period. Any problem submitted during the
extension period will only receive half credit. An extension will not be granted if it is requested more
than two days after the original due date.
• Any other late work will NOT be accepted unless you have a University approved reason and contact
me or the recitation instructor within 2 working days of the missed assignment.
• Unless prior arrangements have been made, the last day to complete makeup work is the last day of
classes.
TENTATIVE COURSE TOPICS AND CALENDAR OF ACTIVITIES
WEEK OF TOPIC SECTIONS
Appendix J.1 &
Week 1: 8/19 – 8/23 Vectors; The Dot Product
J.2
Vector Functions and Parametric Curves; Inverse Trigonometric Appendix J.3,
Week 2: 8/26 – 8/30
Functions; The Limit of a Function 1.5, 2.2
Week 3: 9/2 – 9/6 Calculating Limits using Limit Laws; Continuity; Limits at Infinity and
2.3, 2.5, 2.6
M 9/2 Labor Day Horizontal Asymptotes
Derivatives and Rates of Change; The Derivative as a Function;
Week 4: 9/9 – 9/13 2.7, 2.8, 3.1
Derivatives of Polynomial and Exponential Functions
The Product and Quotient Rules; Derivatives of Trigonometric
Week 5: 9/16 – 9/20 3.2, 3.3
Functions; EXAM I (Appendix J.1 through 2.8)
The Chain Rule; Implicit Differentiation; Derivatives of Logarithmic
Week 6: 9/23 – 9/27 3.4, 3.5, 3.6
Functions
Derivatives of Vector Functions; Slopes and Tangents to Parametric Appendix K.1,
Week 7: 9/30 – 10/4
Curves; Rates of Change in the Natural and Social Sciences K.2, 3.7
Page 6 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
Week 8: 10/7 – 10/11 Exponential Growth and Decay; Related Rates
3.8, 3.9
Fall Break 10/7 & 10/8
Linear Approximations and Differentials; Maximum and Minimum
Week 9: 10/14 – 10/18 3.10, 4.1
Values; EXAM II (3.1 through 3.9)
The Mean Value Theorem; How Derivatives Affect the Shape of a
Week 10: 10/21 – 10/25 4.2, 4.3, 4.4
Graph; Indeterminate Forms and L’Hôpital’s Rule
Week 11: 10/28 – 11/1 Indeterminate Forms and L’Hôpital’s Rule cont.; Optimization Problems 4.4, 4.7
Week 12: 11/4 – 11/8 Antiderivative; Areas and Distances; 4.9, 5.1
The Definite Integral ; The Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; EXAM
Week 13: 11/11 – 11/15 5.2, 5.3
III (3.9 through 5.1)
The Fundamental Theorem of Calculus cont; Indefinite Integrals and the
Week 14: 11/18 – 11/22 5.3, 5.4, 5.5
Net Change Theorem; The Substitution Rule
Week 15: 11/25 – 12/9
The Substitution Rule cont 5.5
Thanksgiving
Week 16-17: 12/12 – 12/10 Review and Final Exams
OTHER IMPORTANT DATES:
Sep 2: Labor Day
Oct 7-8: Fall Break
Nov 13: Last day to Q-Drop
Nov 27: Reading Day, No Classes
Nov 28-29: Thanksgiving Holiday
Dec 3-4: Reading Day, no classes
OTHER COURSE INFORMATION
CLASS ANNOUNCEMENTS, E-MAIL POLICY AND COMMUNICATIONS:
Class announcements will be sent to your university e-mail account. If you send me an e-mail, please include
your name and course information (i.e. class and section) as well as any additional information that I might need
to help respond to your e-mail.
TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT
As much of our learning experience relies on technology, many students can get overwhelmed when something goes wrong
or things get overwhelming. If you’re looking for a curation of online learning resources, consider checking out
https://keeplearning.tamu.edu/.
If your need is specific to a course-related technology issue, consider seeking help from the 24/7 TAMU IT Help Desk.
https://it.tamu.edu/help/.
Page 7 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
MATH LEARNING CENTER
The Math Learning Center(MLC) is offers various forms of support both online and face-to-face, including drop-
in Help-Sessions, Tutoring by Appointment, Week-in-Review Sessions and other activities.
https://mlc.tamu.edu/
Week-in-Review (WIR)
On my webpage are links to the week in review from previous semesters. The problem sets as well as solutions
can be found on my webpage.
There will be Week-in-Review sessions starting the second week of classes. Each review is open to all Math 151 students
to review the topics of the previous week and to provide additional examples. The schedule and problem set that will be
worked during these sessions can be found at
https://mlc.tamu.edu/math-support/week-in-review
Help Sessions
Help sessions are an opportunity for you to ask questions and get help with your homework. These sessions are led by
students, where you may come and go, as your schedule allows. The schedule can be found at
http://mlc.tamu.edu/Online-Help-Services/MLC-Help-Sessions
UNIVERSITY POLICIES
ATTENDANCE POLICY
The university views class attendance and participation as an individual student responsibility. Students are expected to
attend class and to complete all assignments.
Please refer to Student Rule 7 in its entirety for information about excused absences, including definitions, and related
documentation and timelines.
Attendance is essential to complete this course successfully.
• For an absence to be considered excused, the student must notify the instructor in writing (e-mail is
acceptable) prior to the day of absence. In cases where advanced notification is not possible (e.g.
accident, or emergency), the student must provide notification by the end of the second business day
after the last date of the absence to arrange a makeup. This notification must include an explanation of
why advance notice could not be sent.
• An absence due to a non-acute medical service or appointment (such as a regular checkup) is not an
excused absence.
MAKEUP WORK POLICY
Students will be excused from attending class on the day of a graded activity or when attendance contributes to a student’s
grade, for the reasons stated in Student Rule 7, or other reasons deemed appropriate by the instructor.
Please refer to Student Rule 7 in its entirety for information about makeup work, including definitions, and related
documentation and timelines.
• Make-up work will NOT be allowed unless a University approved reason is provided in writing. You
must notify me within 2 working days of the missed assignment to arrange a makeup.
• Makeup exams will only be allowed provided the absence is excused. The makeup must be taken as soon
as possible after the missed exam. You will need to schedule to make up your exam within 3 business days of
the originally scheduled time to allow for grades to be returned in a timely manner.
Page 8 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
• If you know ahead of time you will be absent during an exam, you must notify me in advance.
• Your recitation instructor will coordinate with you for making up a recitation assignment.
• To make up a Python quiz you must set up a time to take a makeup in my office. The department has set a one
week deadline to make up this quiz.
Absences related to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 may necessitate a period of more than 30 days for make-
up work, and the timeframe for make-up work should be agreed upon by the student and instructor” (Student Rule 7, Section
7.4.1).
“The instructor is under no obligation to provide an opportunity for the student to make up work missed because of an
unexcused absence” (Student Rule 7, Section 7.4.2).
Students who request an excused absence are expected to uphold the Aggie Honor Code and Student Conduct Code. (See
Student Rule 24.)
ACADEMIC INTEGRITY STATEMENT AND POLICY
“An Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.”
“Texas A&M University students are responsible for authenticating all work submitted to an instructor. If asked, students must be able
to produce proof that the item submitted is indeed the work of that student. Students must keep appropriate records at all times. The
inability to authenticate one’s work, should the instructor request it, may be sufficient grounds to initiate an academic misconduct case”
(Section 20.1.2.3, Student Rule 20).
• Providing a fake or falsified doctor's note or other falsified documentation will result in an F* in the course.
• Using a calculator/other non-approved technology or additional resources (note sheet, classmate's exam, non-
approved internet sites, ...) on an exam may result in an F* in the course.
• If a student is guilty of academic dishonesty on an exam, then that exam grade will not be replaced by the final
exam grade when computing the course grade.
• Using a calculator/other non-approved technology or additional resources (note sheet, classmate's exam, non-
approved internet sites, ...) on a quiz will result in at a minimum a zero on the assignment. A zero on a quiz for
cheating will not be dropped when computing your quiz average.
• Copying solutions from other sources (i.e. the internet, other groups, friends in other classes or past classes, ...) is
considered academic dishonesty.
• In this course, students can discuss homework/python and their solutions. However, it is NOT permissible to copy
homework/python solutions from another student. The penalties for violating this policy will range from an F on an
assignment or test, to an F* in the course.
• Academic dishonesty on a python lab by an individual student will result in sanctions against ALL
members whose names are on the assignment.
You can learn more about the Aggie Honor System Office Rules and Procedures, academic integrity, and your rights and responsibilities
at aggiehonor.tamu.edu.
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) POLICY
Texas A&M University is committed to providing equitable access to learning opportunities for all students. If you experience barriers
to your education due to a disability or think you may have a disability, please contact Disability Resources in the Student Services
Building or at (979) 845-1637 or visit disability.tamu.edu. Disabilities may include, but are not limited to attentional, learning, mental
health, sensory, physical, or chronic health conditions. All students are encouraged to discuss their disability-related needs with
Disability Resources and their instructors as soon as possible.
Page 9 of 10 – KahligMATH 151 Engineering Math I
Fall 2024
TITLE IX AND STATEMENT ON LIMITS TO CONFIDENTIALITY
Texas A&M University is committed to fostering a learning environment that is safe and productive for all. University policies and
federal and state laws prohibit gender-based discrimination and sexual harassment, including sexual assault, sexual exploitation,
domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking.
With the exception of some medical and mental health providers, all university employees (including full and part-time faculty, staff,
paid graduate assistants, student workers, etc.) are Mandatory Reporters and must report to the Title IX Office if the employee
experiences, observes, or becomes aware of an incident that meets the following conditions (see University Rule 08.01.01.M1):
● The incident is reasonably believed to be discrimination or harassment.
● The incident is alleged to have been committed by or against a person who, at the time of the incident, was (1) a student
enrolled at the University or (2) an employee of the University.
Mandatory Reporters must file a report regardless of how the information comes to their attention – including but not limited to face-
to-face conversations, a written class assignment or paper, class discussion, email, text, or social media post. Although Mandatory
Reporters must file a report, in most instances, you will be able to control how the report is handled, including whether or not to pursue
a formal investigation. The University’s goal is to make sure you are aware of the range of options available to you and to ensure access
to the resources you need.
Students wishing to discuss concerns in a confidential setting are encouraged to make an appointment with Counseling and Psychological
Services (CAPS).
Students can learn more about filing a report, accessing supportive resources, and navigating the Title IX investigation and resolution
process on the University’s Title IX webpage.
STATEMENT ON MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS
Texas A&M University recognizes that mental health and wellness are critical factors that influence a student’s academic success and
overall wellbeing. Students are encouraged to engage in healthy self-care by utilizing available resources and services from Counseling
& Psychological Services (CAPS). Students who need someone to talk to can call the Texas A&M Helpline (979-845-2700) from 4 p.m.
to 8 a.m. weekdays and 24 hours on weekends. Emergency help is also available 24 hours through the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline
(988) or 988lifeline.org.
Page 10 of 10 – Kahlig